doc: usb: refactor USB device support documentation and v.2.7.0 release notes (#38952)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/reference/usb/uds_cdc_acm.rst

.. _usb_device_cdc_acm:

USB device stack CDC ACM support
################################

CDC ACM class is used as backend for different subsystems in Zephyr.
The configuration may not be easy for the inexperienced user.
This is the description of the use cases and some pitfalls.

The interface for CDC ACM user is :ref:`uart_api` driver API.
But there are two important differences in behavior to a real UART controller:

* Data transfer is only possible with the start of the USB device stack,
  until then any data is discarded
* If device is connected to the host, it still needs an application
  on the host side which requests the data

> Devicetree compatible propertiy for CDC ACM UART is ``"zephyr,cdc-acm-uart"``.

Reviewer: Please use `:dtcompatible:` to generate a link to the bindings index page.

chosen node, we can describe that CDC ACM UART is to be used with console.
Similar overlay file is used by :ref:`cdc-acm-console`.
If USB device support is enabled in the application, as in the console sampe,
:kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_UART_CONSOLE` must be enabled,
which does nothing but change the initialization time of the console driver.

.. code-block:: devicetree

   / {
   	chosen {
   		zephyr,console = &cdc_acm_uart0;
   	};
   };

   &zephyr_udc0 {
   	cdc_acm_uart0: cdc_acm_uart0 {
   		compatible = "zephyr,cdc-acm-uart";
   		label = "CDC_ACM_0";
   	};
   };

Before the application uses the console, it is recommended to wait for
the DTR signal:

.. code-block:: c

    const struct device *dev = DEVICE_DT_GET(DT_CHOSEN(zephyr_console));
    uint32_t dtr = 0;

    if (usb_enable(NULL)) {
    	return;
    }

    while (!dtr) {
    	uart_line_ctrl_get(dev, UART_LINE_CTRL_DTR, &dtr);
    	k_sleep(K_MSEC(100));
    }

    printk("nuqneH\n");

CDC ACM UART as backend
***********************

As for the console sample, it is possible to configure CDC ACM UART as
backend for other subsystems by setting :ref:`devicetree-chosen-nodes`
properties.

> List of few Zephyr specific chosen properties which can be used to select

Reviewer: What is your plan for maintaining this in the future? I do my best to keep the official list in doc/reference/devicetree/api.rst up to date, so I'm concerned about this going stale.

Author: I would like to keep it here as well but limited to the important use cases with the links to the examples.

.. _usb_device_cdc_acm:

USB device stack CDC ACM support
################################

> CDC ACM class is used as backend for different subsystems in Zephyr.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CDC ACM class is used as backend for different subsystems in Zephyr.
```

> The configuration may not be easy for the inexperienced user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, its configuration may not be easy for the inexperienced user.
```

> This is the description of the use cases and some pitfalls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a description of the different use cases and some pitfalls.
```

The interface for CDC ACM user is :ref:`uart_api` driver API.
But there are two important differences in behavior to a real UART controller:

> * Data transfer is only possible with the start of the USB device stack,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Data transfer is only possible after the USB device stack has been initialized and started,
```

  until then any data is discarded
* If device is connected to the host, it still needs an application
  on the host side which requests the data

> Devicetree compatible propertiy for CDC ACM UART is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Devicetree compatible property for CDC ACM UART is
```

:dtcompatible:`zephyr,cdc-acm-uart`.
CDC ACM support is automatically selected when USB device support is enabled

> and a compatible node in devicetree sources is present. If necessary,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and a compatible node in the Devicetree sources is present. If necessary,
```

CDC ACM support can be explicitly disabled by :kconfig:`CONFIG_USB_CDC_ACM`.
About four CDC ACM UART instances can be defined and used,
limited by the maximum number of supported endpoints on the controller.

CDC ACM UART node is supposed to be child of a USB device controller node.
Since the designation of the controller nodes varies from vendor to vendor,
and our samples and application should be as generic as possible,
the default USB device controller is usually assigned an ``zephyr_udc0``

> nodelabel. Often, CDC ACM UART is described in a devicetree overlay file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
node label. Often, CDC ACM UART is described in a Devicetree overlay file
```

and looks like this:

.. code-block:: devicetree

   &zephyr_udc0 {
   	cdc_acm_uart0: cdc_acm_uart0 {
   		compatible = "zephyr,cdc-acm-uart";
   		label = "CDC_ACM_0";
   	};
   };

Samples :ref:`usb_cdc-acm` and :ref:`usb_hid-cdc` have similar overlay files.

> And since no special properties are present, it may seem exaggerated to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
And since no special properties are present, it may seem overkill to use
```

> devicetree to describe CDC ACM UART.  The motivation behind using devicetree

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Devicetree to describe CDC ACM UART.  The motivation behind using Devicetree
```

> is the easy interchangeability of real UART controller and CDC ACM UART

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is the easy interchangeability of a real UART controller and CDC ACM UART
```

in applications.

Console over CDC ACM UART
*************************

> With CDC ACM UART node from above and ``zephyr,console`` property of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the CDC ACM UART node from above and ``zephyr,console`` property of the
```

> chosen node, we can describe that CDC ACM UART is to be used with console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
chosen node, we can describe that CDC ACM UART is to be used with the console.
```

> Similar overlay file is used by :ref:`cdc-acm-console`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A similar overlay file is used by :ref:`cdc-acm-console`.
```

> If USB device support is enabled in the application, as in the console sampe,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If USB device support is enabled in the application, as in the console sample,
```
